welcome back to movie math absent for
the last few weeks just as audiences
have been absent from movie theaters in
general yes it's been a horrible year
financially for Hollywood with some
suits finally beginning to concede that
Americans just don't go to the movies as
much as they used to
yet refusing to take any of the blame
and they can continue to live an
ignorant bliss as long as the foreign
box-office continues to deliver at an
astounding rate diehard 5 is the
number-one grossing movie of 2013 so far
thanks to earning almost 75% of its box
office overseas and Hansel and Gretel is
number 2 sporting pretty much the same
ratio but this weekend it seems that
Americans did go to the movies or more
accurately they returned to Oz honestly
Great and Powerful scored not only the
biggest domestic opening of the year but
the third biggest for the month of March
ever coming in behind the Hunger Games
in its doppelganger Alice in Wonderland
that's right Joe Roth is no con man is
he delivered for Disney as promised and
the mass house is salivating not only
are they fast tracking plans for a
sequel but also hinting in a major
merchandising push as well as a
potential ride at their theme parks but
even more so last week I asked if Disney
would be able to dominate live action
fairy tales as they do animated once and
it appears the answer is yes there Alice
sequel is still moving forward + Roth
has is Alice and oz production designer
Robert Stromberg currently in
post-production with his directorial
debut Maleficent and as I also mentioned
last week Disney is also aggressively
pursuing a reimagining of Cinderella
with Emma Watson potentially playing the
popular princess looks like Guillermo
del Toro's beauty in the beasts
reimagining which was supposed to also
star Watson fell apart
speaking of actors this is phenomenal
news for James Franco who was never
starred in a big blockbuster word is
that when Robert Downey jr. and Johnny
Depp turned down on Disney was in such a
pinch tool and delayed the Franco was
able to land a 7 million dollar deal and
now he joins Downey jr. in-depth to
complete Disney's trio of stars nobody
ever thought to associate with Disney
but now seem integral to the studio
success behind the camera Sam Raimi
could also feel good about rebounding
after his rift with Sony / spider-man
yet he has said he won't direct the Oz
sequel but didn't Joss Whedon say he
wouldn't direct the Avengers - but you
know who this weekend wasn't a win for
3d as 46% of Americans often
in 2d and Oz has great 3d although I
agree with the BTT commenter that in the
trailer for star trek into darkness the
place before Oz there post-conversion 3d
looks like elsewhere in the box
office it looked like the wicked witch's
flying baboons had laid waste to it Jack
the giant slayer indeed tumbled from the
top of the box office Beanstalk
plummeting over 60 percent from its
opening weekend although I was shocked
to discover that my local IMAX theater
didn't switch out Jack for oz meaning
that his more and more movies go for
top-notch visuals there currently aren't
enough IMAX theaters to go around then
the rest of the top 10 failed to break
the double digits with dead man down
debuting with just around 5 million
Colin Farrell strikes again
the only real winners out there right
now besides Oz are identity thief in
silver linings playbook 2 flicks that
feature strong female leads a nice
counterbalance to oz who some are
accusing of being sexist but regardless
I was set to win this coming weekend as
well with the incredible Burt
Wonderstone in the call both hitting
theaters plus if you live in New York or
LA and want a trippy double feature
check out oz and then Spring Breakers
and that's the weekend box office
I'm Grace Randolph and we just did some
movie math as always thanks for watching
and I hope we'll go beyond the trailer
for these other top movies